Avis3: AstroSat Visibility tool version 3.2

This directory contains a Python script Avis3.2.py written to
estimate the duration of visibility of a celestial source
from the Indian Astronomy satellite Astrosat. This may be
used as a tool to accompany the Astrosat Proposal Processing
System (APPS), or to aid reviews and scheduling.

Avis3 uses NORAD two-line element format for orbital elements 
and sgp4 propagation for the satellite orbit. 

Constraints accounted for Avis3 include Sun angle w.r.t. positive 
and negative roll, Moon angle, Earth Limb angle and Ram angle.  
A simple trapezoidal SAA model is introduced, as per the mission 
specification. The code computes visibility for three different cases: 
(1) complete non-occult non-SAA visibility duration, appropriate 
    for LAXPC and CZTI instruments, 
(2) only night time visibility, appropriate for SXT, and 
(3) night-time visibility with reduction for instrument
    set-up duration, appropriate for UVIT. 

To run the script, one needs to have basic python installed. The
script uses "os" and "math" modules that normally come with any
python installation. Use the command "python Avis3.2.py" to run.
The code is compatible with both python 2.7 and python 3.x

The following files must be present in the working directory:

1. Avis3.2.py         (main python script)
2. sourcelist.txt : a text file containing the names and J2000
                    coordinates of the targets to be observed.
                    Format is one source per line,
                    SourceName (containing no spaces), RA2000
                    and Dec2000 separated by whitespace.  The 
                    coordinates may be specified in decimal degrees
                    or colon-separated hh:mm:ss  deg:min:sec format.
                    A sample sourcelist.txt file is included with 
                    the release.
4. Avis3_config.txt Used to set the values of the operating
                    parameters such as the various avoidance angles,
                    the start date of visibility calculation, the
                    span and the interval.  If this file is not present
                    then values hardcoded in the script are used. However
                    in the presence of this file values in the file 
                    take precedence. A sample file is included with the 
                    release.
5. sgp4 directory   containing all utilities for handling TLE data
                    and sgp4 propagation
6. Astrosat.tle     Two-Line Element file for Astrosat.  The most recent 
                    available TLE should be used.  You may download recent
                    TLE files from 
   http://astrosat-ssc.iucaa.in/uploads/orbital_elements/AS1_orbital_elements.tar

The various coordinates here are computed with an accuracy of arcminutes.
This is good enough to estimate the net visibility duration to typically
about 1% accuracy.

A text file output for each source is created, containing a table of 
visibility duration per orbit as a function of time. 

A companion script "plotdailyvis" is provided which uses all the visibility
text files (*_avis.txt) present in the directory and generates a postscript
file of a stack of plots of visibility duration per day.  Once the visibility
text files are produced, one should run this script as

./plotdailyvis

which will generate a file called dailyvis.ps with all the plots.  This script
uses gnuplot, so the gnuplot executable should be available in the regular path.
 
Questions, comments, bug reports and suggestions for improvements may 
be directed to Dipankar Bhattacharya (dipankar@iucaa.in)

